---
layout: post
nav: blog
date: "2017-08-29 09:00:00"
title: "Announcing Cucumber-JVM v2.0.0"
author: brasmusson
---

I am excited to announce the release of Cucumber-JVM v2.0.0.

Here follows a summary of notable changes, and the non backward compatible changes.
The full change log is available [here](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-jvm/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).
Most importantly note that the Maven group id is changed. 

Notable Changes
----------------

#### Maven group id
The Maven group id is changed to `io.cucumber`.

#### Gherkin v4 and Pickles
The Gherkin library is updated from version 2.12.2 to version 4.1.3. This is
a complete rewrite using new design principles. One of the more visible
consequences for Cucumber-JVM is that the feature files are compiled into a
set of [Pickles](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber/tree/master/gherkin#pickles)
(one Pickle for each Scenario and one for each Example Table row),
which form the basis for the execution. The Pickle is converted to a Test Case
before the actual execution by matching the steps to step definitions and adding
steps for the hooks. The execution in Cucumber-JVM v1.2.5 was based on
iterating over the feature file. This change has consequences for the formatter
interface, see the "Non backward compatible changes" section below.

#### Event model
As of v2.0.0, time stamped events are used internally to notify significant steps
during the execution of Cucumber-JVM. The [events](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-jvm/tree/main/core/src/main/java/cucumber/api/event)
sent during the execution of Cucumber-JVM are:

-   `TestRunStarted` - the first event sent.

-   `TestSourceRead` - sent for each feature file read, contains the feature
    file source.

-   `SnippetSuggestedEvent` - sent for each step that could not be matched
    to a step definition, contains the raw snippets for the step.

-   `TestCaseStarted` -
    sent before starting the execution of a Test Case(/Pickle/Scenario),
    contains the Test Case

-   `TestStepStarted` -
    sent before starting the execution of a Test Step, contains the Test Step

-   `EmbedEvent` - calling `scenario.embed` in a hook triggers this event.

-   `WriteEvent` - calling `scenario.write` in a hook triggers this event.

-   `TestStepFinished` - sent after the execution of a Test Step, contains the
    Test Step and its Result.

-   `TestCaseFinished` - sent after the execution of a Test Case(/Pickle/Scenario),
    contains the Test Case and its Result.

-   `TestRunFinished` - the last event sent.

#### Java 8
The changes with respect to Java 8 includes:

-   method references can be used in lambda step definitions.

-   lambda steps are allowed to throw checked exceptions.

-   It is no longer possible to use lambda step definitions without also using
    cucumber-java8

#### JUnit module
By default it is the Test Cases(/Pickles/Scenarios) that are the leafs in the
test suite tree. The structure of the test suite tree is
Runner class -> Feature -> Test Case(/Pickle/Scenario). The old behaviour where
the Steps are the leafs in the test suite tree can be activated with the
`--junit,--step-notifications` option.

As of v2.0.0, the `TestStarted` notification is always fired before the test is started,
so the `--junit,--allow-started-ignored` option has no effect and is deprecated.
This change in notifications is enabled by using the `AssumptionFailed` notification
to make Undefined and Pending Scenarios be marked as skipped.

#### TestNG module
As of v2.0.0, it is the Test Cases(/Pickles/Scenarios) that are mapped to TestNG tests.

#### Tag Expressions
As of v2.0.0, the [Tag Expression library](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber/tree/master/tag-expressions)
is used to parse the `--tags` options and the tags conditions on hooks.
Expressions like `--tags 'not @foo or @bar'` or `Before("@foo and @bar")` can
therefore be used. The old syntax for "not" (`~@foo`) and "or"  (`@foo,@bar`) is deprecated.

#### Tag, name, and line filters can coexist
For instance it is possible to use `--tags @foo classpath:path/file.feature:3`.
The different filters are combined with "and" (all must be fulfilled). One
practical use of this is when the test run that generated a rerun file was using
a `--tags` option, then that `--tags` option does not need to be removed when
using the rerun file, which was the case in v1.2.5. 

#### Ambiguous as a separate result type
In v1.2.5 ambiguous step (more that one step definition matches the step) were
using the `failed` result type. As of v2.0.0, we follow the lead of Cucumber-JS and use a
separate `ambiguous` result type for ambiguous steps. A summary like
`2 Scenarios (1 Passed, 1 Ambiguous)` may occur with v2.0.0.

Non backward compatible changes 
-------------------------------

#### Formatter interface
As of v2.0.0, formatters are Event Listeners that listen for events. The
formatter registers itself as a handler for the events it needs to listen to,
and then processes the events received to produce its output. See the
"Event Model" section above for a listing of the available events, and for
instance the [source code of the Json Formatter](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-jvm/blob/main/core/src/main/java/cucumber/runtime/formatter/JSONFormatter.java)
for an example.

#### Data available to hooks
Two of the methods in the `Scenario` object available to hooks have changed.

As of v2.0.0, the `getStatus` method returns an Enum instead of a String.
Using `scenario.getStatus().lowerCaseName()` the same string that was returned
in v1.2.5 can be obtained. To check what the status value is, statements like
`scenario.getStatus() == Result.Type.FAILED` can be used. 

As of v2.0.0, the `getId` method returns the string `<feature file uri>:<line number>`.
In v2.0.0, when Pickles are the basis for the test execution, the data used in v1.2.5
(like "feature id", "examples id") is no longer available during the execution.

Full change log
---------------

See [CHANGELOG.md](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-jvm/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).
