Cucumber-JVM v5.1.0-v5.7.0
==========================

In the last three months we picked up the pace and managed to do a new
release nearly every week. With v6-RC1 and v5.7.0 released now would be a good time
to look back and see what is still relatively new in v5.

As always the [full changelog] can be in its usual place. 

[full changelog]:           ../CHANGELOG.md


v5.2.0: Redefine build in data table types
------------------------------------------

In v5.0.0 empty cells in a data table would be transformed into null rather than
the empty string. By using `replaceWithEmptyString = "[blank]"` on a
datatable type an empty string can be explicitly inserted.  

However, this did not work for when converting to build in types such as `String`
and `Object`. It is now possible to redefine build in types.  

This enables the following:

```gherkin
Feature: Whitespace
  Scenario: Whitespace in a table
   Given a blank value
     | key | value   |
     | a   | [blank] |
```

```java
@given("A blank value")
public void givenABlankValue(Map<String, String> map){
    // map contains { "key":"a", "value": ""}
}

@DataTableType(replaceWithEmptyString = "[blank]")
public String listOfStringListsType(String cell) {
    return cell;
}
```

Note that this only applies to `String` and `Object`. It is not possible to
redefine other build in types. Though this could be considered if there is a
clear use case.

v5.3.0: Sensible CLI defaults
-----------------------------

The Cucumber CLI is rather complex to use. To work correctly it needs both
a `--glue` parameter in the form of a package name, and a location of a feature
file in form of a classpath uri or path. As a result people often configure
Cucumber incorrectly and are left wondering why their features or glue cannot
be found.

This can be simplified by using sensible default for both. Unless explicitly
told otherwise Cucumber will assume that glue and feature files reside in the
class path root. So with the following project layout the CLI can discover and
execute all features without needing additional arguments.

```
├── pom.xml
├── src
│   ├── main
│   │   └── java
│   │       └── com/example/Application.java
│   └── test
│       ├── java
│       │   └── com/example/StepDefinitions.java
│       └── resources
│           └── com/example/example.feature
```

This can be done with a single maven command:

```shell script
mvn exec:java                                  \
    -Dexec.classpathScope=test                 \
    -Dexec.mainClass=io.cucumber.core.cli.Main
```

v5.3.0: Skip Scenarios with the JUnit Platform
----------------------------------------------

The JUnit Platform supports skipping tests. For example in JUnit Jupiter a
test can be annotated with `@Disabled`. This test will be marked as skipped.

Cucumber scenarios do not have annotations nor is there any support to disable
specific scenarios. A typical work around from JUnit 4 was to set 
`tags="not @Disabled"` in `@CucumberOptions` and tag scenarios with
`@Disabled`.

To do the same with the Cucumber JUnit Platform Engine the 
`cucumber.filter.tags` property can be used. For example by adding 
`cucumber.filter.tags=not @Disabled` to `junit-platform.properties`.

Note: unlike JUnit 4, skipped scenarios are not remove from in the test
hierarchy.

v5.5.0: @ParameterType(useRegexpMatchAsStrongTypeHint)
----------------------------------------

When using regular expressions, Cucumber will use the pattern in a capture
group as hint to determine which parameter type should be used.

When the type hint provided by the regex, and the type hint provided by the
method (i.e. the types of its arguments) disagree about the type
`cucumber-expressions` prefers the hint provided by the regex.

When declaring parameters types with a very simple regular expressions this may
cause a problem. For example:

```java
import io.cucumber.java.ParameterType;
import io.cucumber.java.en.Given;

public class Main {

    private static class TypeA {}

    @ParameterType("\\w+")
    public TypeA typeA(String a) {
        return new TypeA();
    }

    @given("a cucumber expression of {typeA}")
    public void an_object_of_type_a(TypeA a) {
        // works fine!
    }

    @given("^a regular expression of (\\w+)$")
    public void an_object_of_type_b(String b) {
        // broken: will attempt to use the transformer for TypeA
    }
}
```

By using `@ParameterType(pattern="\\w+", useRegexpMatchAsStrongTypeHint=false)`
this behaviour can be changed to instead prefer the type hint from the method.

Note: `useRegexpMatchAsStrongTypeHint` will default to `false` in v6.

v5.5.0: A better way to configure the application context in Cucumber Spring
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Cucumber Spring has a complicated way to configure the application context.

The configuration can be provided by either:  
 * A context configuration annotation on a class which also happens to have
   step definitions 
 * A magic file named `cucumber.xml`
 * An empty application context if the previous options could not be discovered
 
This makes it hard to explain how to use Cucumber Spring and the fallback
strategy to the empty application context hides errors. 

From now on the preferred way to use `cucumber-spring` is to annotate a class
with both `@CucumberContextConfiguration` and a Spring context configuration
annotation such as `@ContextConfiguration`, `@SpringBootTest`, ect.

```java
import com.example.app;

import org.springframework.boot.test.context.SpringBootTest;

import io.cucumber.spring.CucumberContextConfiguration;

@CucumberContextConfiguration
@SpringBootTest(classes = TestConfig.class)
public class CucumberSpringConfiguration {

}
```

The alternatives, `cucumber.xml` and annotating step definitions with a
`@ContextConfiguration` have been deprecated and will be removed in v6.

v5.7.0: Exclusive resources with Junit 5
----------------------------------------

The JUnit Platform supports parallel execution. To avoid flakey tests when
multiple scenarios manipulate the same resource tests can be 
[synchronized][junit5-user-guide-synchronization] on that resource.

[junit5-user-guide-synchronization]: https://junit.org/junit5/docs/current/user-guide/#writing-tests-parallel-execution-synchronization

To synchronize a scenario on a specific resource the scenario must be tagged
and this tag mapped to a lock for a specific resource. A resource is identified
by a string and can be either locked with a read-write-lock, or a read-lock.

For example:

```gherkin
Feature: Exclusive resources

 @reads-and-writes-system-properties
 Scenario: first example
   Given this reads and writes system properties
   When it is executed 
   Then it will not be executed concurrently with the second example

 @reads-system-properties
 Scenario: second example
   Given this reads system properties
   When it is executed
   Then it will not be executed concurrently with the first example

```

With this configuration:

```
cucumber.execution.exclusive-resources.reads-and-writes-system-properties.read-write=SYSTEM_PROPERTIES
cucumber.execution.exclusive-resources.reads-system-properties.read=SYSTEM_PROPERTIES
```

The first scenario tagged with `@reads-and-writes-system-properties` will lock 
the `SYSTEM_PROPERTIES` with a read-write lock and will not be concurrently
executed with the second scenario that uses a read lock.
