Cucumber-JVM v6.0.0
===================

I'm conflicted to announce Cucumber-JVM v6.0.0. While v5.0.0 was released about
six months ago, it seems like a lifetime.

Upgrading from v5 should relatively straightforward. Prior to upgrading to 
v6.0.0 upgrade to v5.7.0 and stop using all deprecated features. Some features
will log a deprecation warning.

Below we'll discuss some notable changes in v6.0.0 As always the full change log
can be found in [the usual place](../CHANGELOG.md).

Gherkin Rules and Examples
--------------------------

Several years ago [Matt Wayne came up with example mapping](https://cucumber.io/blog/bdd/example-mapping-introduction/). 
Last year [Cucumber Ruby introduced the Rule Keyword](https://cucumber.io/blog/open-source/announcing-cucumber-ruby-4-0-0rc2/)
and today it comes to Cucumber JVM.  

Message formatter to replace the Json formatter
-----------------------------------------------

With the introduction of a new keyword in Gherkin we ran into the problem that
current json formatter was essentially a direct representation of the Gherkin
syntax tree; test results added to it like Christmas decorations. 

Additionally, the json formatter did not have a schema, extremely high memory
consumption, and lacked a consistent output between Cucumber implementations. 

To resolve these issues Cucumber now has a [message based output format](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber/tree/master/messages).

To use the message formatter use:

```java
@CucumberOptions(plugin = "message:target/cucumber-report.ndjson")
```

The output looks like:

```ndjson
{"source":{"uri":"features/minimal/minimal.feature","data":"Feature: minim ...
{"gherkinDocument":{"uri":"features/minimal/minimal.feature","feature": ... 
{"pickle":{"id":"4","uri":"features/minimal/minimal.feature", ... }}
{"stepDefinition":{"id":"0","pattern":{"source":"I have {int} cukes in my ...
{"testRunStarted":{"timestamp":{"seconds":"0","nanos":0}}}
{"testCase":{"id":"6","pickleId":"4","testSteps":[{"id":"5","pickleStepId": ...
{"testCaseStarted":{"timestamp":{"seconds":"0","nanos":1000000},"attempt":0, ...
{"testStepStarted":{"timestamp":{"seconds":"0","nanos":2000000}, ...
{"testStepFinished":{"testStepResult":{"status":"PASSED","duration": ...
{"testCaseFinished":{"timestamp":{"seconds":"0","nanos":6000000}, ...
{"testRunFinished":{"timestamp":{"seconds":"0","nanos":7000000}}}
```

This formatter will eventfully replace the existing json formatter. If you are
using the json formatter to generate reports, please request support for this
new format.

[cucumber-messages]: https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber/tree/master/messages 

Improved Html Formatter
-----------------------

The old html formatter has been replaced with an improved html formatter that
outputs the entire report as single file rather than a collection of files.

```java
@CucumberOptions(plugin = "html:target/cucumber-report.html")
```

Note: If you are already using the html formatter. Do not forget to append 
`.html`.

Removal of `cucumber.options`
-----------------------------

The `cucumber.options` property could be used to pass commandline arguments to
`cucumber-junit` and `cucumber-testng` For example: 

```shell script
mvn clean test -Dcucumber.options='--monochrome --tags "not @ignored"'
```

This is rather complicated. Especially so when intermediates (e.g. maven,
teamcity) also interpret the arguments. A better way to do this is to provide
each option as an individual property.

```shell script
mvn clean test                           \ 
  -Dcucumber.ansi-colors.disabled=true   \
  -Dcucumber.filter.tags="not @ignored"
```

A complete and accurate list of supported properties can be obtained by running

```shell script
mvn exec:java                                   \ 
  -Dexec.classpathScope=test                    \
  -Dexec.mainClass=io.cucumber.core.cli.Main    \
  -Dexec.args="--help"
```

Cucumber Spring ContextConfiguration
------------------------------------

Cucumber Spring had a complicated way to configure the application context.

The configuration could be provided by either:
 * A context configuration annotation on a class which also happens to have
   step definitions
 * A magic file named `cucumber.xml`
 * An empty application context if the previous options could not be discovered

This made it hard to explain how to use Cucumber Spring and the fallback
strategy to the empty application context hides errors.

From now on the preferred way to use `cucumber-spring` is to annotate a class
with both `@CucumberContextConfiguration` and a Spring context configuration
annotation such as `@ContextConfiguration`, `@SpringBootTest`, ect.

```java
import com.example.app;

import org.springframework.boot.test.context.SpringBootTest;

import io.cucumber.spring.CucumberContextConfiguration;

@CucumberContextConfiguration
@SpringBootTest(classes = TestConfig.class)
public class CucumberSpringConfiguration {

}
```

The alternatives, `cucumber.xml` and annotating step definitions with a
`@ContextConfiguration` are no longer supported.

Default to --strict
-------------------

After execution a scenario in Cucumber has five possible end states. JUnit and
TestNG tests only use three states and build tools only support two outcomes.
When integrating with these tools Cucumber has to map its internal states to the
states used by the tooling. Depending on the strictness Cucumber will map
`PENDING` and `UNDEFINED` to different states.

When using `--strict` Cucumber maps `PENDING` and `UNDEFINED` to test or build
failure. With `--non-strict` they mapped test skipped or build success. So
missing and unimplemented steps will either fail or get skipped. The idea
behind `--non-strict` is that it allows work in progress not to fail the build. 

Working in progress is not a good practice, so we don't see a lot of reason
to support it.

On top of that, while the strict mode is available to plugins it is not
available to consumers of a plugins output. This makes it harder for reporting
tools to correctly interpret the outcome of a Cucumber test. To make this even
more complicated, different Cucumber implementations default to different values
of strict. So by removing `--non-strict` and defaulting to `--strict` we will
eventually make it possible to remove this complexity for consumers of Cucumbers
output.

As an alternative, tags and tag filters can be used to mark features and
scenarios that are not yet implemented. This has the advantage that
unimplemented features clearly marked as not yet implemented.

Cucumber JUnit and TestNG are quite by default
----------------------------------------------

Previously when using Cucumber JUnit or TestNG a progress indicator and
summary of all tests would be printed. While helpful the output would interleave
with the progress reporting from other tools such as Maven or Gradle. Since
these tools already do some progress reporting, Cucumber should not duplicate it
by default.

To enable the original helpful output use:

```java
@CucumberOptions(plugins={"progress", "summary"})
public class RunCucumberTest {

}
```
